{"title": "LOTR Quotes", "author": "JRR Tolkien"}

Not all those who wander are lost.

Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. For even the very wise cannot see all ends.

A wizard is never late, Frodo Baggins. Nor is he early; he arrives precisely when he means to.

Courage is found in unlikely places.

It is useless to meet revenge with revenge; it will heal nothing.

Even the smallest person can change the course of the future.

Memory is not what the heart desires. That is only a mirror.

End? No, the journey doesn’t end here. Death is just another path, one that we all must take.

I don't know half of you half as well as I should like; and I like less than half of you half as well as you deserve.

I would rather share one lifetime with you than face all the ages of this world alone.

It is no bad thing to celebrate a simple life.

We wants it. We needs it. Must have the precious. They stole it from us. Sneaky little Hobbitses. Wicked. Tricksy. False!

Don’t adventures ever have an end? I suppose not. Someone else always has to carry on the story.

The wise speak only of what they know.

It is not the strength of the body, but the strength of the spirit.

It’s the job that’s never started as takes longest to finish.

It is not our part here to take thought only for a season, or for a few lives of Men, or for a passing age of the world. We should seek a final end of this menace, even if we do not hope to make one.

Such is oft the course of deeds that move the wheels of the world: small hands do them because they must, while the eyes of the great are elsewhere.

May the wind under your wings bear you where the sun sails and the moon walks.

It is not despair, for despair is only for those who see the end beyond all doubt. We do not.

There’s some good in this world, Mr. Frodo… and it’s worth fighting for.

How do you pick up the threads of an old life? How do you go on when in your heart you begin to understand there is no going back? There are some things that time cannot mend, some hurts that go too deep that have taken hold.

All’s well that ends better.

Fly, you fools!

Well, here at last, dear friends, on the shores of the Sea comes the end of our fellowship in Middle-earth. Go in peace!

Do not trouble your hearts overmuch with thought of the road tonight. Maybe the paths that you each shall tread are already laid before your feet, though you do not see them.

Oft the unbidden guest proves the best company.

Who knows? Have patience. Go where you must go, and hope!

If more of us valued food and cheer and song above hoarded gold, it would be a merrier world.

Where there’s life there’s hope, and need of vittles.

It’s a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don’t keep your feet, there’s no knowing where you might be swept off to.

May it be a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out.

Short cuts make long delays.

There are some things that it is better to begin than to refuse, even though the end may be dark.

The world is full enough of hurts and mischances without wars to multiply them.

I can avoid being seen, if I wish, but to disappear entirely, that is a rare gift.

Even darkness must pass. A new day will come. And when the sun shines it will shine out the clearer. Those were the stories that stayed with you, that meant something, even if you were too small to understand why.

Snow’s all right on a fine morning, but I like to be in bed when it’s falling.

Only a small part is played in great deeds by any hero.

Faithless is he that says farewell when the road darkens.

I was talking aloud to myself. A habit of the old: they choose the wisest person present to speak to.

Oft in lies truth is hidden.

The Quest stands upon the edge of a knife. Stray but a little, and it will fail, to the ruin of all. Yet hope remains while the company is true.

This day does not belong to one man but to all. Let us together rebuild this world that we may share in the days of peace.

Evil will be drawn to you from outside the fellowship. And, I fear, from within you must trust yourself. Trust your own strengths.

When in doubt, follow your nose.

'I am old, Gandalf. I don’t look it, but I am beginning to feel it in my heart of hearts. Well-preserved indeed!' he snorted. 'Why, I feel all thin, sort of stretched, if you know what I mean: like butter that has been scraped over too much bread. That can’t be right. I need a change, or something.'

Short cuts make delays, but inns make longer ones.

In this hour, I do not believe that any darkness will endure.

One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them.

Few other griefs amid the ill chances of this world have more bitterness and shame for a man’s heart than to behold the love of a lady so fair and brave that cannot be returned.

But in the end it’s only a passing thing, this shadow; even darkness must pass.