{"title": "Wu-Tang Lyrics", "author": "Wu-Tang Clan"}
Tiger Style!
Tiger Style! (Tiger style!)


Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit
Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit
Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit

Yo, there's no place to hide once I step inside the room
Dr. Doom, prepare for the boom
Bam! Aw, man! I slam, jam, now scream like Tarzan
I be tossin', enforcin', my style is awesome
I'm causin' more family feud than Richard Dawson
And the survey said, "You're dead!"
Fatal Flying Guillotine chops off your fuckin' head
Mister, who is that? Ayo, the Wu is back
Makin' niggas go Bo! Bo! like I'm Super Cat
Me fear no one, oh no, here come
The Wu-Tang shogun, killer to my eardrum


Put the needle to the groove, I gets rude
And I'm forced to fuck it up
My style carries like a pick-up truck
Cross the clear blue yonder, sea to shinin' sea
I slam tracks like quarterback sacks from L.T
Now why try and test the Rebel INS?
Blessed since the birth, I earth-slam your best
'Cause I bake the cake, then take the cake
And eat it, too, with my crew while we head state to state


And if you want beef, then bring the ruckus!
Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthing ta fuck wit
Straight from the motherfuckin' slums that's busted
Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthing ta fuck wit


Hah! Lebonon, step up, boy!
Represent! Chop his head off, kid!


The Meth will come out tomorrow
Styles, conditions, bizarre, bizarro
Flow, with more afro than Rollo
Comin' to a fork in the road, which way to go? Just follow
Meth is the legend, niggas is sleepy hollow
In fact I'm a hard act to follow
I dealt for dolo, Bogart comin' on through
Niggas is like, "Oh my God, not you!"
Yes, I come to get a slice of the punk and the pie
Rather do than die, check my flavor
Comin' from the RZA, which is short for The Razor
Who make me reminisce true
Like déjà vu, I'm rubber, niggas is like glue
Whatever you say rubs off me sticks to you


Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit
Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit
Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit
Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit

Ahh-hah! Yeah! Representin' Brooklyn, Queens
Long Island, Manhattan, Bronx
The Rugged Lands of Shaolin
Niggas from Virginia, Atlanta, our boys in Ohio
Comin' through with the crazy Y-O Y-O
Yo, niggas from The Source
My man Kelly Woo from the Gavin
Will Strickland, Jason Staton, yeah
True, true, my nigga Crown, what's goin' down, boy?
We ain't nuthing ta fuck wit
The whole Texas mob, the Chicago mob
Niggas from Detroit, fuckin' California squadron

Comin' through, you know what I'm sayin'?
The whole fuckin' West Coast to the whole East
Niggas from D.C., down in Maryland
All the way over there in Morgan State

Wu-Tang Clan ain't nuthin ta fuck wit
All over the whole fuckin' globe, comin' through, boy
Peace to the fuckin' Zulu Nation

Peace to all the Gods and the Earths, word is bond
Wu-Tang slang, choppin' heads, boy
It ain't safe no more, peace! I'm mind shockin, body rockin, earth shakin, money makin
Sittin high, lookin fly, drinkin on the best wine...


Yo bitch I fucked your friend, yeah you stank hoe
I seen her on the elevator, honey grabbed my Kangol
She put me on to mega-shit, bout to slap the bitch
She shot crazy verbal, I leaned back like I'm rich
It took place late night on February 17th
Hands flooded like ink, my face on her magazine
Just got back from Honolulu, pockets stackin boucoup cash
Girlfriend sipped the Yoo-hoo and laughed, yo
While I was on tour, whore, you went to work
Quick fast, had a nigga dick in the dirt
You couldn't wait just to kidnap the bait of my sperm
Where's you at, hoe? 'Pinky house, she put in my perm'
That's all you ever said to me, thought that could hold me
Remember when I long-dicked you and broke your ovary?
You crab bitch, chickenhead hoe, eatin' heros
I'm the first nigga that had you watchin flicks by DeNiro
You gained crazy points, baby, just bein with God
Taught you how to eat the right foods, fast, and don't eat lard
I gave you earth lessons, I came to you as a blessin
You didn't do the knowledge what the God was manifestin
You sneaky fuck bitch, your ways and actions told it all
I fucked you while you was bleedin, held you down in malls
Sexually you worshipped my di-dick like a cross
I had you fiend out, broke out, for a month you fell off
You was my main shit, my peeps showed you love on the strength
You saw how I got down, the way I thought had you tranked
But you had to fuck this rasta-head ass nigga
I shoulda slapped ya but the Gods said chilllllllll
That's your wiz fault, god, handle that in the lab"
I'm wonderin how many times your hot ass got stabbed
You dumb bitch, horny hot fuck from out the mountains
Your clientele is low hoe, catch you next show, bro
I got jerked, gave away my pussy, that shit hurt
It feel like somebody died or shot your old Earth
But fuck it, I fucked you on a chair with three legs
Broken tables, had you screamin while you was bitin on my cables
Whistlin to the washing machine, I threw it on spin
If your pussy dry, spit on my dick and put it in
My dick's the bomb baby, marvelous hot steak
Plus I'm conceited Starks make the biggest so-called rape
I'm God, cipher divine love my pussy real fine
That means clean the FDS smell with a shine
Word up, respect that hoe
After laughter comes tears


Check the script, me and the gods gettin' ripped
Blunts in the dip, forty dogs in my lip
Had a box, 'boom boom' the bass would blast
We was laughin' at all the girls that passed
Conversation, brothers had began to discuss
(Hey yo, Rob, remember that kid you bust?)
Aw yeah, he ran, but he didn't get far
'Cause I dropped him, heh heh heh heh heh ha
Not knowin' exactly what lied ahead
My little brother, my mother sent him out for bread
Get the Wonder, it's a hot day in the summer
Didn't expect to come across a crazy gunner
"Hey, Shorty, check it, run the bag and the dough!"
But he was brave, looked him in the eye, and said "No!"
Money splattered him, BOW! Then he snatched the bag
Hit his pockets, then he jetted up the Ave
Girls screamin', the noise up and down the block
(Hey, Rakeem!) What? (Your little brother got shot!)
I ran frantically, then I dropped down to his feet
I saw the blood all over the hot concrete
I picked him up, then I held him by his head
His eyes shut, that's when I knew he was
Aw man! How do I say goodbye?
It's always the good ones that have to die
Memories in the corner of my mind
Flashbacks, of us laughin' all the time
I taught him all about the bees and birds
But I wish I had a chance to sing these three words

After laughter comes tears


Me and my man, my ace Big Moe from the shelter
'Bout to hit the skins from this girl named Thelma
Now, Thelma had a rep that was higher than her neck
Every girl from Shaolin dissed her respect
We was stimmy, you know how it is when you're blitzed
Three o'clock in the mornin', somethin' got to give
Moe said he'll go first, I said I'll take next
Here, take this raincoat and practice safe sex!
He seemed to ignore, I said, "Be for real!
She's not even worth it to go raw deal."
A man's gonna do what a man's gonna do
He got butt-naked and stuck the power U
Twenty minutes went by, Moe, I'm out without a doubt
I'm not pumpin' up, I am airin' out
Hey yo, he came out laughin' with glory
I'm surprised he's still livin' to tell his story
But he carried on with the same old stuff
With Stephanie, like a Whammy, he pressed his luck
Moe tried to be down with O.P.P
Ain't nothin' wrong, but he got caught with the H.I.V
Now no life to live, doc says two more years
So after the laughter I guess comes the tears

After laughter comes tears
When a motherfucker steps out his place
And gets slapped in his motherfuckin face
Just because the motherfucker tried to base
The g.o.d., the g.o.d.

And while I see his whole click passes by
Motherfuckers think they qualify
And for those niggaz want to try
The g.o.d., the g.o.d.


Yo
I'm not caught up in politics
I'm no black activist on a so-called scholar's dick
I come through with the wu and drop math
And versatile freestyles bombs and phonographs
And deliver, all things and other in weight
Searched to death, on how living things relate
Cause at a young age, I was molded in a religion I relied on
And got caught up in superstition
Scared to split pole, duck black cats
Once in a while, threw salt over my back
But with knowledge of self from off the shelf
Made things seemed complicated now small like elves
So turn off the lights light a candle, and have a seance
Pull the lid off the dean martin scandal
Witches warlocks spooks and holy ghosts
Rza lets defraud the host




We were on the same ship when the slaves were checked
I had to pull your card you was on the top deck
So I plotted my escape, I saw the thin line between love and hate
And fast from the hog on the plate
I suffered brutal pains, from whips and chains
Punishments that were set to wash the brain
So look listen observe and also respect this jewel
Drawed up, di-tect and reflect this
Light I shine, that cause my power to be find
Through the truth, which manifest through eternal minds
Purified gases and masses the same elements
That helped spark civilization classes
I see brothers quote math plus degrees
Look at professor ass niggaz can't feed they own seeds
Shame on a nigga who try to run game on a nigga
Wu buck wild with the trigger
Shame on a nigga who try to run game on a nigga
Wu buck... I'll fuck your ass up!


(Yo, hut one, hut two, hut three, hut!)
Ol' Dirty Bastard, live and uncut
Styles unbreakable, shatterproof
To the young youth, you wanna get gun? Shoot!
Blaow! How you like me now?
Don't fuck the style, ruthless wild
Do you wanna get your teeth knocked the fuck out?
Wanna get on it like that? Well, then shout!


Yo RZA, yo razor, hit me with the major
The damage, my clan understand it, be flavor
Gunnin', hummin', comin' at ya
First I'm gonna get ya, once I got ya, I gat ya
You could never capture the Method Man's stature
For rhyme and for rapture, got niggas resignin', now master
My style? Never!
I put the fuckin' buck in the wild, kid, I'm terror, razor-sharp
I sever, the head from the shoulders, I'm better than my competta
You mean competitor, whatever, let's get together


Shame on a nigga who try to run game on a nigga
Wu buck wild with the tri-BLOW!


I react so thick, I'm phat, and yo
Rae came blowin' and blew off your headphones, black
Rap from, yo, Cali to Texas
Smoother than a Lexus, now's my turn to wreck this
Brothers approach and half step
But ain't heard half of it yet and I bet you're not a fuckin' vet
So, when you see me on the real
Formin' like Voltron, remember I got deep like a Navy Seal


Shame on a nigga who try to run game on a nigga
Wu buck wild with the trigger
Shame on a nigga who try to run game on a nigga
I'll fuck your ass up!

Yo! I come with that ol' loco style from my vocal
Couldn't peep it with a pair of bifocals
I'm no joker, play me as a joker
Be on you like a house on fire, smoke ya
Crews be actin' like they gangs, anyway
Be like, "Warriors, come out and play!"
Burn me, I get into shit, I let it out like diarrhea
Got burnt once but that was only gonorrhea
Dirty, I keep shit stains in my drawers
So I can get fizza-funky for ya
Murder, taste the flame of the Wu-Tang
Rah! Here comes the Tiger vs. Crane
I'll be like wild with my style
Punk, you play me, chump, you get jumped
Wu is comin' through at a theater near you
And get funk like a shoe, what?

(special technique) Fuck that
(special technique of shadowboxing) God damn
(The GZA, god damn!)
(The GZA, god damn!) Pledge allegiance to the hip-hop!
(Method, god damn!) I pledge allegiance to the hip-hop
(Maximilli-on, Maximilli-on)
(Uh, yeah, ahh, uh) Johnny Blaze
I pledge allegiance to the hip-hop
(Johnny Blaze) Maximilli-on
Maximilli-on


I breaks it down to the bone gristle
Ill speaking Scud missile heat seeking Johnny Blazing,
nightmares like Wes Craven niggaz gunning,
my third eye seen it coming Before it happen
You know about them fucking Staten Kids they smashing
Everything huh, in any shape form or fashion
Now everybody talking bout they blasting, hmmm
Is you busting steel or is you flashing? Hmmm
Talking out your assHOLE
You shoulda learnt about the flow and peasy afro
Ticallion stallion, chinky eye and snot nosed
From my naps to the bunion on my big toe I keeps it moving,
know just what the fuck I'm doing - rap insomniac,
fiend to catch a nigga snoozing, slip the cardiac
Arrest me, exorcist Hip Hop posses me
Crunch a nigga like a Nestle, you know my STEEZ
Burning to the third degree, sneaky ass
alley cat top pedigree, the head toucher,
industry party bum rusher
You don't like a dick up in ya, fuck ya

(allow me to demonstrate) That's right, you corny-ass
(the skill of Shaolin) rap motherfuckers
(The special technique) Better go back and check
(of shadowboxing) your fucking stacks
(Shadowboxing) Cause your naps ain't nappy enough
And your reefs ain't rugged enough
Bitch


I slayed MC's back in the rec room era
My style broke motherfucking backs like Ken Patera
Most rap niggaz came loud but unheard
Once I pulled out, round em off to the nearest third
Check these non visual niggaz, with tapes and a portrait
Flood the seminar, trying to orbit this corporate
Industry, but what them niggaz can't see
Must break through like the Wu, unexpectedly
Protect Ya Neck, my sword still remain imperial
Before I blast the mic, RZA scratch off the serial
We reign all year round from June to June
While niggaz bite immediately if not soon
Set the lynching and form the execution date
As this two thousand beyond slang suffocate
Amplify sample through vacuum tubes compressions
Cause RZA, to charge niggaz twenty G's a session


When my mind start to clicking, and the strategy
Is mastered the plot thickens, this be that Wu shit
I don't give a cotten-picking FUCK
About a brother trying to size a nigga up, I hold my own
Hard-hat protect your dome
Look at mama baby boy acting like he grown
No time for sleep, I gets deep as a baritone
Killa Bee, that be holding down his honeycomb, lounging son
Wu brother number one, 'Protect Ya Neck'
Flying guillotines here they come, bloody bastards
Hard times and killer tactics, spitting words plus
Semi-automatic slurs, peep the graphic
Novel from the genie bottle, hit the clutch
Shift the gear now, full throttle, time to bungee
To the next episode, I keeps it grungy
Hand on my nutsac, and spitting lung-ghies
At a wack nigga that, don't understand the fact
When it come to RZA tracks I don't know how to act
Real rap from the Stat, Killa Hill projects
How to be exact, break it down
All and Together Now
Things are getting good looking better now

(Allow me to demonstrate the skill of Shaolin)
(Sha-shadowboxing, the special technique of shadowboxing)
(Shadowboxing) "So whassup, man?"
"Coolin', man."
"Chillin' chilin'? Yo, you know I had to call, you know why right?"
"Why?"
"Because, yo, I never ever call and ask you to play somethin', right?"
"Yeah."
"You know what I wanna hear, right?"
"Whatchu wanna hear?"
"I wanna hear that Wu-Tang joint."
"Wu-Tang again?"
"Ah, yeah, again and again."


Wu-Tang Clan coming at ya
(Watch your step, kid, watch your step, kid)
Protect ya neck, kid!
(Watch your step, kid, watch your step, kid)
To set it off
(Watch your step, kid, watch your step, kid)
The Inspectah Deck!


I smoke on the mic like "Smokin' Joe" Frazier
The hell-raiser, raisin' hell with the flavor
Terrorize the jam like troops in Pakistan
Swingin' through your town like your neighborhood Spider-Man
So uhh, tick-tock and keep tickin'
While I get ya flippin' off the shit that I'm kickin'
The Lone Ranger, code red, danger
Deep in the dark with the art to rip the charts apart
The vandal, too hot to handle
You battle, you're sayin' "Goodbye" like Tevin Campbell
Roughneck, Inspectah Deck's on the set
The Rebel, I make more noise than heavy metal


The way I make the crowd go wild, sit back, relax, won't smile
Rae got it goin' on, pal, call me the rap assassinator
Rhymes rugged and built like Schwarzenegger
And I'ma get mad deep like a threat
Blow up your project, then take all your assets
'Cause I came to shake the frame in half
With the thoughts that bomb shit like math
So if you wanna try to flip, go flip on the next man
'Cause I grab the clip and hit ya with 16 shots and more, I got
Goin' to war with the meltin' pot, akh


It's the Method Man, for short Mr. Meth
Movin' on your left, aah!
And set it off, get it off, let it off like a gat
I wanna break full, cock me back
Small change, they puttin' shame in the game
I take aim and blow that nigga out the frame
And like Fame my style'll live forever
Niggas crossin' over, but they don't know no better
But I do, true, can I get a "suue"
Enough respect due to the one-six-ooh
I mean O, yo check out the flow
Like the Hudson or PCP when I'm dustin'
Niggas off, because I'm hot like sauce
The smoke from the lyrical blunt make me


Ooh, what, grab my nut, get screwed
Oww, here comes my Shaolin style
True B-A-ba-B-Y-U
To my crew with the "suuuuue"


Yeah, yeah, yeah (Watch your step, kid)
(Watch your step, kid, watch your step, kid)
C'mon, baby baby, c'mon, baby baby (Protect ya neck)
(Watch your step, kid, watch your step, kid)
C'mon, baby baby, c'mon
(Watch your step, kid, watch your step, kid)
Yo, you best protect ya neck


First things first, man, you're fuckin' with the worst
I'll be stickin' pins in your head like a fuckin' nurse
I'll attack any nigga who's slack in his mack
Come fully packed with a fat rugged stack
Shame on you when you step through to
The Ol' Dirty Bastard straight from the Brooklyn Zoo
And I'll be damned if I let any man
Come to my center, you enter the winter
Straight up and down, that shit is packed jam
You can't slam, don't let me get fool on him, man
The Ol' Dirty Bastard is dirty and stinkin'
Ason Unique rollin' with the night of the creeps
Niggas be rollin' with a stash, ain't sayin' cash
Bite my style, I'll bite your motherfuckin' ass


For cryin' out loud, my style is wild, so book me
Not long is how long that this rhyme took me
Ejectin' styles from my lethal weapon
My pen that rocks from here to Oregon
Here's more again, catch it like a psycho flashback
I love gats, if rap was a gun, you wouldn't bust back
I come with shit in all types of shapes and sounds
And where I lounge is my stompin' grounds
I give an order to my peeps across the water
To go and snatch up props all around the border
And get far like a shootin' star
'Cause who I are is livin' the life of Pablo Escobar
Point-blank as I kick the square biz
There it is, you're fuckin' with pros, and there it goes


Yo, chill with the feedback, black, we don't need that
It's 10 o'clock, ho, where the fuck's your seed at?
Feelin' mad hostile, wearing Aeropostale
Flowin' like Christ when I speaks the gospel
Stroll with the holy roll, then attack the globe with the buckus style
The ruckus, ten times ten men committin' mad sin
Turn the other cheek and I'll break your fuckin' chin
Slayin' boom-bangs like African drums, we'll be
Comin' around the mountain when I come
Crazy flamboyant for the rap enjoyment
My clan increase like black unemployment
Yeah, another one dare, G-Gka-Genius
Take us the fuck outta here


The Wu is too slammin' for these Cold Killin' labels
Some ain't had hits since I seen Aunt Mabel
Be doin' artists in like Cain did Abel
Now they money's gettin' stuck to the gum under the table
That's what you get when you misuse what I invent
Your empire falls and you lose every cent
For tryna blow up a scrub
Now that thought was just as bright as a 20-watt light bulb
Should've pumped it when I rocked it
Niggas so stingy they got short arms and deep pockets
This goes on in some companies
With majors, they're scared to death to pump these
First of all, who's your A&R?
A mountain climber who plays an electric guitar?
But he don't know the meanin' of dope
When he's lookin' for a suit-and-tie rap
That's cleaner than a bar of soap
And I'm the dirtiest thing in sight
Matter of fact, bring out the girls, and let's have a mud fight


You best protect ya neck
You best protect ya neck
You best protect ya neck
You best protect ya neck 
Yeah, torture, motherfucker, what?
(Torture, nigga, what?)
What? I'll fuckin', I'll fuckin' tie you to a fuckin' bedpost
With your ass cheeks spread out and shit, right?
Put a hanger on a fuckin' stove and let that shit sit there for like a half hour, take it off and stick it in your ass slow like "tsss"
(Yeah, I'll fuckin', yeah, I'll fuckin' lay your nuts on a fuckin' dresser, just your nuts layin' on a fuckin' dresser, and bang them shits with a spiked fuckin' bat blaow)
Ooh wassup?
I'll fuckin', I'll fuckin', pull your fuckin' tongue out your fuckin'
Mouth and stab the shit with a rusty screwdriver, blaow
(I'll fuckin', I'll fuckin', I'll fuckin' hang you by your fuckin' dick off the fuckin' twelfth stor-story building out this motherfucker)
I'll fuckin', I'll fuckin', sew your asshole closed, and keep feedin' you, and feedin' you, and feedin' you, and feedin' you
Yo, roll the dice, yo, roll the dice
Yo, so it's goin' down like that, huh? Yeah?
Niggas is wildin', check it out, kid


From the slums of Shaolin, Wu-Tang Clan strikes again
The RZA, the GZA, Ol' Dirty Bastard, Inspectah Deck
Raekwon the Chef, U-God, Ghostface Killah and the Method Man


M-E-T-H-O-D Man
M-E-T-H-O-D Man
M-E-T-H-O-D Man
M-E-T-H-O-D Man

Hey, you, get off my cloud
You don't know me and you don't know my style
Who be gettin' flam when they come to a jam?
Here I am, here I am, the Method Man
Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake, hey, the Method Man
Don't eat Skippy, Jif or Peter Pan
Peanut butter 'cause I'm not butter
In fact, I snap back like a rubber
Band, I be Sam, Sam-I-Am
And I don't eat green eggs and ham
Style'll hit ya, wham, then goddamn
You'll be like, "Oh shit, that's the jam"
Turn it up, now hear me get buck w-w-wild
I'm about to blow, light me up (Light me up)
Upside, downside, inside and outside
Hittin' you from every angle, there's no doubt I
Am the one and only Method Man
The master of the plan, rappin' shit like Saran
Wrap, with some of this and some of that
Hold up (What?) I tawt I taw a putty tat
Over there, but I think he best to beware
Of the diggy dog shit right here
Yippy-yippy-yay, yippy-yah, yippy-yo
Like Deck said, "This ain't your average flow"
Comin' like rah, ooh-ah, achie-kah
Tell me, how you like it so far, baby paw?
The poetry's in motion, coast to coast and
Rub it on your skin like lotion
What's the commotion? Oh my Lord
Another corn chopped by the Wu-Tang sword
"Hey, hey, hey" like Fat Albert
It's the Method Man, ain't no if ands about it
It's the Method

Alright, y'all, get your White Owls
Get your Meth', get your skins
Don't forget your 'orty
And we gonna do it like this

I got fat bags of skunk
I got White Owl blunts
And I'm about to go get lifted
Yes, I'm about to go get lifted
I got myself a Forty
And I got myself a shorty
And I'm about to go and stick it
Yes, I'm about to go and stick it, uh

H-U-F-F, huff, and I puff
Blow like snow when the cold wind's blowin'
Zoom, I hit the mic like boom
Wrote a song about it, like to hear it? Here it goes
Question, what exactly is a panty raider?
Ill behavior, savior or major flavor
All of the above, oh yeah, plus seducer
Also, flam, I'm the man, call me super
Not an average Joe with an average flow
Doin' average things with average hoes
Yo, I'm super, I'll make a bitch squirm
For my super sperm (Check it)
Check it, I give it to you raw butt-naked
I smell sess, pass the method
Let's get lifted as I kick ballistic
Missiles and shoot game like a pistol
Clip is loaded when I click bang (Bang)
A Wu-Tang slug hits your brain
J-U-M-P, jump, and I thump
Make girls rump like pump and Humpty Hump
Wild, the Shaolin style is all in me
Child, the whole damn isle is callin' me
P-A-N-T-Y, R-A-I-D-E-R, mad raw, I don't fry
Meaning, no one can burn or toss and turn me
Ooh, I be the super sperm
Chim-chimney, chim-chim, cher-ee
Freak a flow and flow fancy free
Now, how many licks does it take
For me to hit the Tootsie Roll center of a break?
Peep and don't sleep, the crew's mad deep (Wu-Tang)
Fadin' motherfuckers like bleach
So to each and every crew
You're clear like glass, I could see right through
Your whole damn posse be catchin' 'em all, 'cause you vic'd
And you didn't have friends to begin with, I'm—

The M-E-T-H-O-D Man
M-E-T-H-O-D Man
M-E-T-H-O-D Man
Here I am, here I am, the Method Man


Straight from the slums of Shaolin
Wu-Tang Killa Beez on a swarm
(Your soul have just been tooken)
(Through the 36 Chambers of death, kid)
{Word to mother, Method Man signin' off, peace}

Yo (yeah) check it out son, check it out son
Yo, (wu, can I get a soo) live in the place to be
You got the capital g
G to the a-m-c
Givin a mad shout out to the ranch crew from the old school
And we gonna take y'all back, knowhati'msayin?
Lyrical sorcerors right here, the fathers, the cream of the crop son
(yo check it)


Well if you livin in the world today
You be hearin the slang that the wu-tang say
Niggaz that front we don't handle em
So we blast em, alright, well ok

Well if you like the way it sound then clap man
And if the women love it too well then raise your hands
But only raise your hands if you're sure
(meth) punk niggaz shatter like a glass jaw, break it


My rhyme gross weight vehicle combination
Was too heavy for the chevy's is chased out the station
Double-edged was the guillotine that beheaded it
Gassed up, fuckin with some regular unleaded shit
Heads roll on hillsides behind ropes that
Bind-in, x marks the spot on the scope
Heavily armed military is necessary, it's a gamble
Mc's bet they best at every
Powerful parable ditties might harm
If tampered with, set off and strike like pipe bombs
Flashbacks to the duel of the iron mic
Look out for these fatal flying spikes, of massive
Sleep-holds, put strangle on commercial angle
Microphone cords tangled from being star spangled
Now who could ever say they heard of this?
My motherfuckin style is mad murderous




Well what you know about mcin?
Yo, I know a lot
Well can you demonstrate somethin nigga?
Huh, I'd rather not
I'm talkin bout stacks cousin
Nigga that's what I got
Cash rules the world
Well cash rules the spot


My preliminary attack keep cemetaries packed
Of niggaz who think it ain't like that
Mc's are gunned down like being run down with mad trucks
Them God struck, religious niggaz call it bad luck
Rap celeb, you got caught up in the web
Now bees are stingin, yo that niggaz em-singin
I'm just swingin swords strictly based on keyboards
Unbalanced like elephants and ants on see-saws
I throw raps that attack like the japs on pearl harbor
Mc's be out like bank robbers
Fleeing the scene, to be a sole survivor
Dj the getaway driver
Tried to dip but he dive I socialize on vocal vibes
On tracks stabbed up with razor sharp knives
Criminal subliminal minded rappers find it
Hard to define it, when narrow is the gate
For fat tapes and then played out and out of date
Then I construct my thoughts on site to renovate
And from that point, the God made a statement
Draftin tracements, replacements in basements
Materials in sheet-rock, to sound proof the beat box
And microscopic optics received through the boxes
Obnoxious topic, major labels, flavor tropical
Punchlines, that's unstoppable
Ring like shots from glocks that attract cops
Around the clubs and try to shut down the hip-hop
But we only increase if everything is peace
Father u c king the police


When I was little... my father was famous.
He was the greatest sam-urai in the empire;
And he was the shogun's decapitator.
He cut off the heads of a hundred and thirty-one lords.
It was a bad time for the empire.
The shogun just stayed inside his castle -- and he never came out.
People said his brain was infected by devils.
My father would come home -- he would forget about the killings.
He wasn't scared of the shogun, but the shogun was scared of him.
Maybe that was the problem.
Then, one night... the shogun sent his ninja spies to our house.
They were supposed to kill my father... but they didn't.

That was the night everything changed *voice fades*


See, sometimes...
You gotta flash em back
See niggaz don't know where this shit started
Y'all know where it came from
I'm sayin we gonna take y'all back to the source
We bounce, yo


When the mc's came, to live our their name
And to perform (forrrrm)
Some had, to snort cocaine (caiiinnne) to act insane (sannne)
With before pete rock-ed it on, now gone
That the mental plane (plaaanne) to spark the brain (brainnn)
With the building to be born
Yo rza flip the track with the what to gut
Check em check chicka icka etta uhh


Fake niggaz get flipped
In mic fights I swing swords and cut clown
Shit is too swift to bite you record and write it down
I flow like the blood on a murder scene, like a syringe
On some wild out shit, to insert a fiend
But it was yo out the shop stolen art
Catch a swollen heart from not rollin smart
I put mad pressure, on phony wack rhymes that get hurt
Shit's played, like zodiac signs on sweatshirt
That's minimum, and feminine like sandals
My minimum table stacks a verse on a gamble
Energy is felt once the cards are dealt
With the impact of roundhouse kicks from black belts
That attack, the mic-fones like cyclones or typhoon
I represent from midnight to high noon
I don't waste ink, nigga I think
I drop megaton bombs more faster than you blink
Cause rhyme thoughts travel at a tremendous speed
Clouds of smoke, of natural blends of weed
Only under one circumstance is if I'm blunted
Turn that shit up, my clan in da front want it




I'm on a mission, that niggaz say is impossible
But when I swing my swords they all choppable
I be the body dropper, the heartbeat stopper
Child educator, plus head amputator
Cause niggaz styles are old like mark 5 sneakers
Lyrics are weak, like clock radio speakers
Don't even stop in my station and attack
While your plan failed, hit the rail, like amtrak
What the fuck for? down by low, I make law
I be justice, I sentence that ass two to four
Round the clock, that state pen time check it
With the pens I be stickin but you can't stick to crime
Came through with the wu, slid off on the dl
I'm low-key like seashells, I rock these bells
(when the mc's..) now come aboard, it's medina bound
Enter the chamber, and it's a whole different sound
It's a wide entrance, small exit like a funnel
So deep it's picked up on radios in tunnels
Niggaz are fascinated how the shit begin
Get vaccinated, my logo is branded in your skin
Lot of people, you know what I'm sayin, they be gettin misinformed
Thinkin everything is everything, that you could just get yourself
A little deal, whatever, youknowhati'msayin you gonna get on you
Gonna get rich. and all these labels be trying to lure us in like
Spiders, into the web, knowhati'msaying. so sometimes people gotta
Come out and speak up, and let people understand, that you know you
Gotta read the label you gotta read the label if you don't read the
Label you might get poisoned...


Tommy ain't my motherfuckin' boy
When he fake moves on a nigga you employ
Well I'll emirge off ya set, now ya know God damn
I show livin large niggaz how to flip a def jam
And ruff up the motherfuckin' house
Cause I smother you cold chillin' mother fuckers are still warner brothers
I'm ruthless my clan don't have to act wild
That shit is jive, an old sleeping bag/profile
This soft comedian rap shit ain't the rough witty
On the reel to reel it wasn't from a tuff city
Niggas be game, thinking that they lyrical surgeons
They know their mics are formed at virgin
And if you ain't boned a mic you couldn't hurt a bee
That's like going to venus driving a mercury
The capitol of this rugged slang, is wu-tang
Witty unpredictable talent and natural game
I death row an mc with mic cables
The epic is at a rush associated labels
From eastwest to atco, I bring it to a next plateau
But I keep it phat though
Yo, I'm hittin' batters up with the wild pitch style
I even show an uptown/mca style
Who thought he saw me on 4th & broadway
But I was out on the island, bombing mc's all day
My priority is that I'm first priority
I bone the secret out a bitch in a sorority
So look out for a&m, the abbot and the master
Breakin' down your pendulum
As I fiend mc's out with a blow that'll numb the
A-ppendix, I'm holdin more more weight than columbia
Index interscope, we rca. clan
That's comin' with a plan to free a
Slave of a mental death mc don't panic
Throw that a&r nigga off the boat in the atlantic
Now who's the bad boy character, not from arista
But firin' weapons released on geffen
So duck as I struck with the soul of motown
While central broadcasting systems are slowed down
You're dirty, like that bastard
It's gettin drastic

Read the label and say it loud
Another wu banger
Thirty-six chambers, to your area
Yeah, the rza, phat tracks on a disc
Rza razor rza razor sharp
Another wu-tang production kid, comin at ya
Got a message for Smokey.
Give it.
You Smokey, man?
Give it!
If you ain't Smokey, it ain't yo' motherfuckin' message
Motherfucker, I said gimme the message!
It's from Willie, in the slam.
Nigga, you been busted?
Yeah, the man picked me up.
Well, I ain't got no fuckin' time to play witchu! Now gimme the message.
Willie's in Warwick, doin' 1-3. Told me to tell y'all motherfuckers to
keep cool. He be out one way or another. Quick. Maybe I could stick
around for awhile.
Naw, that's out, man. You know? What can we, The Lords, do with a punk like
you?
Kiss my ass, motherfucker! (Burn 'em) Just me and you, motherfucker, just
me and you. I put trademarks around your fuckin' eye!)

(Portrayin', won't be payin'. Uh huh, Uh huh)
(Yeah, no doubt, no doubt, this Wally champ cat. Yeah, it's on this one)



Yo, Gambino niggas who swipe theirs
Deluxe rap cavaliers
Midgets who steal beers, give 'em theirs



Sit back jollyin'
My team be gamin' like three card Rolly an'
Drug Somalians pollyin'



Many raps they crochetin'
Ay yo Iron, these niggas portrayin'
But haven't been payin'
For real, slide on these niggas like flesh fear
Caesar fade style, usually tough grenade
Throw a blade, fuck gettin' laid
Guzzle this shit like Gatorade
Big-dick Wallies have never half-suede
Connectin' with the hot style is done
Light up a chalis
I run with nuttin' but the wildest, foulest
Come on now, long-dick style
Niggas on the hit out, ay yo Iron bite my shit out
Eventually, bust a rap gun mentally
Been doin' this century kid, just meant to be
Get on your knees and bless me with a gem in the Caribbean
Skiin' off by P.M.
Snatch Canadian cream with Scandinavians
Fellatium style, play it like thirty-two Arabians
The greatest lesson is don't owe, you might get stole on
When I go bury me wit Valow on

(They come to me, and understand, just let me get mines first. Then after I
get mines, y'all can do what y'all wanna do. Fuck 'em up bad)



'Sho 'nuff, hit the bank and thrust
Cool Nauticas Jamie Summer got trained on the tour bus
We upgrade, swallow raw eggs, read the label
Hittin' white-label, left the Winnebago unstable
Smooth sailin', walked in, my earth started kneelin'
Started stealin', I'm too ill, see we're bellin' at the parlay
Kicked up, mack, max motion
Michael Bolton magazine call, I'm too potent
Louisville mix pain kill rap, Fuck benadryl
The violin in 'Knowledge God' sounded ill
Tremendously obnoxious, no blotches
My telephone watch'll leave bartenders topless
Dead on the prosecutor, smacked a juror
Me and my girl'll run like Luke and Laura
We sit back on Malayan islands
Sippin' mix drinks out of boat coconut bowls, we whylin'



Sit back jollyin', Uh huh, Uh huh
Uh huh, Uh huh, Sit back jollyin'
Uh huh, Uh huh, Uh huh, Uh huh



Sit back



Deep meditation sound orientated, war the blizzard
Rap para-medical the wizard
Cappadonna, never caterin' to none
My microphone and three verse weigh a ton of slaughter
You oughta five thousand back across the water
My laboratory story keep me flowin' with the glory
Acapella or deep dirty instrumental
I could blow the sky like the stormy wind blew
One gallon of whylin', Park Hill profilin'
I cut your face up rough fifty sure while you're smilin'
For violatin' my position,
I leave you smoked like a crackhead on a mission
Two tokes of mic dope, one stroke of elegance
Rated like the movie graphic told intelligence
Person to person, it'd be hard for you to take a trophy
You better off to get somebody out to try to smoke me
'Cause I'm P-L-O T-K-O every day
Dancehall General, Party Fanatic Colonel
Cappadonna son'a old school just go infernal
Veteran for rappin' with the new set of rule of hard rappin'
Ninety-six jive, I keep the live crowd clappin'
When I bow, all praises due to Staten Isle
I spark the mic and Shaolin spark the methtical
Every evenin', I have a by myself meetin'
Thinkin' who's gonna be the next to catch a beatin'
From my mental slangin', bitchin' rap twist the point of warfare
I brutalize, all competition catch ill hair
Chance him, that's what they said, threw up a ransom
I jacked it, stripped the beat naked and packed it
Gimme my rewards

(The way I, the way I wanna get 'em. I want 'em gotten. I want 'em layin'
out. I want 'em gotten. 'Cause niggas need to be gotten. He need to be
taken off of here. That's right.) Rugged rhymsters, crooked crimesters
Dime droppers, twenty-five-to-lifers
Backstabbers, low blowers
Illegal... cocaine growers
Starvation, profanity
Anxiety, brothers tryin me
Gun slingers, dead ringers


Yo, my slang's out of this world
Mix collaboration man, little man and his girl
Way of life got me thinkin, plus I'm analyzing young
Youths on roofs, you know, three time felony brutes
Roll together, tropical trees puff, whatever
Yo, we could go run up on kids for leathers
What drug? faculties bubble keys for g's
Cream flow like seven seas, hit chicks guayanese
Word up, hold your head before you fall out
The morgue route, the devil want that
Let's get my niggaz locked all out
Change for better, that be my only vendetta
In life, feed your seed right, it's breathin indeed right
Chef, remarkable, sparkable, raps and tackable gats
Never get jacked, see ya then move, black
Paradise trife, plush with much ice
Gettin nice, layin back, sleep all my life
Word up!


(the battle of brooklyn depicted was the bloodiest
Clash of the american revolution. soldiers killed
3,000 men, much of the fighting took place in what is now...)

Crack patients, dime smokers
Vial carriers, mocha tokers
Burnt buildings, brothers building
Save yo' children, investigative reports!


Callin all cars, callin all cars! ghetto
Psychos, armed and dangerous, leavin mad scars on those
Who are found bound, gagged and shot when they blast the spot
Victims took off like astronauts
Get with this, even your best can't
Come on down, you're the next contestant!
Get your pockets dug from all your chemical bank-ins
Caught him at the red light - on putnam avenue and franklin
They used to heat up the cipher with a shot that was hyper
Than your average jfk sniper
He just came home to spark it
Rolling like kaufman, and lay that ass out like carpet
Stop the stuttering boy, save the planes for the five-oh
Then praise the God - chk-a-chk pow!
They be lick shots and premeditate to grab...
...and then they jet back to the lab
And then remain in shaolin
An endangered island
Shorties lose blood by the gallon



(have integrate a number of corrupt cops, judges...
...into high-level positions, to insure the continued
Success of the drug smuggling and money laundering operations)


Yo, I grab the pen for revenge and let loose, see
Like muslims, standing on the block, rocking a khufi
The hundred-dollar kick rockin kid's back for more
Startin gold wars, with black reeboks and velours
Jungle royal life, livin villain
Packed with visions, copywritten
Throwin bread to pigeons, christ has risen, king elegant
Slang-master jackets, expensive noodle hats
In sixty-nine, old times was time that brothers shot craps
The baggy blue guess jeans, pull strings off of callin springs
I'm locked in the thing, rocky ring labelled rap king
The corner emperor - the golden thieves play the benches
Rednecks be hanging big niggaz down in memphis
Back in now-y, hit the bull's eye with loaded nines
Life is like tarzan, swingin from a thin vine
Shatter dreams, then mirrors don't need a press spirals
Aim at the white shadows with big barrels
Of moet-ahs, the bald headers, milk and amarett-ahs
Who fear none, question all personal vendettas, yo
They use guns, while we angrily shot arrows
You better keep your eye on the sparrow!


(have integrated a number of corrupt cops, judges and lawyers
Into high-level positions -- to insure the continued success
Of the drug smuggling and money laundering opertaions.) 
I gotcha back, but you best to watch your front
Cause it's the niggaz that front, they be pullin stunts
I gotcha back, but you best to watch your front
Cause it's the niggaz who front (they be pullin stunts)

I was always taught my do's and don'ts
For do's I did, and for don'ts, I said I won't
I'm from Brooklyn, a place where stars are born
Streets are shot up, apartment buildings are torn
And ripped up, stripped up, shacked up and backed up
From fiends, cause the bosses on the scene, they got it cracked up
Kids are slingin in my lobby
Little Steve and Bobby
Gettin paid but it's a life-threatening hobby
Yeah, they still play hide and seek
The fiends seek for the crack, and they hide and let the cops peep
Grown folks say they should be out on their own
Before the gangs come and blow up their mom's home
Because they lifestyle is hectic, so fuckin hectic
Blaow! Blaow! Blaow! Bullets are ejected
My lifestyle was so far from well
Coulda wrote a book with a title "Age 12 and Goin through Hell"
Then I realized the plan
I'm trapped in a deadly video game, with just one man
So I don't only watch my back, I watch my front
Cause it's the niggaz who front, they be pullin stunts
Back on the Ave of Lavonia and Bristol with a pistol
Stickin up Pamela and Crystal
You know your town is dangerous when you see the strangest
Kid come home from doin the bid and nuthin changes
What is the meaning of CRIME (what?)
Is it Criminals Robbin Innocent Motherfuckers Everytime?
Little shorties take walks to the schoolyard
Tryin to solve the puzzles to why is life so hard
Then as soon as they reached the playground, blaow!
Shots ring off and now one of them lay down
It's so hard to escape the gunfire
I wish I could rule it out like an umpire
But it's an everlasting game, and it never cease to exist
Only the players change, so...




I gotcha back so you best to watch your front
Cause it's the niggaz who front, that be pullin stunts
I gotcha back but you best to watch your front
It's the niggaz who front, that be pullin stunts


(old man)
Your, tech, nique, is, mag-ni-ficent
When cut across the neck
A sound like wailing winter winds is heard, they say
I'd always hoped to cut someone like that someday
To hear that sound
But to have it happen to my own neck is... ridiculous

Aiyyo shorty, yo that's my word
Oh, y'all smellin y'all piss now y'all think y'all gold
Yo anybody get caught playin
Over here, I'm returnin em that's my word that they be blasted
Anything from two-twenty to one-forty, that's mine
Y'all need to step the fuck off
Y'all niggaz ain't crazy for real


Yo, the fiends ain't comin fast enough
There is no cut that's pure enough
I can't fold, I need gold, I re-up and reload
Product must be sold to you


I'm deep down in the back streets - in the heart of medina
About to set off something more deep than a misdemeanor
Under the subway, waiting for the train to make noise
So I can blast a nigga and his boys - for what?
He pushed up on the block and made the dope sales drop
Like the crashin of dow jones stock
I had to connect to cross seals, to catch more mil's
Than ho-bitches got birth control pills
I'm in the park, settin up a deal over blunt fire
Bum niggaz sleepin on the bench, they had em wired
Peeped my convo, the address of my condo
And how I changed a nigga name to john doe
And while we set up camp, we got vamp
Put the stake through his heart, I ripped his fucking fangs apart
Snake got smoked on the set like brandon lee
Blown out the frame, like pan am flight 103
He got swung on, his lungs was torn, the
Kingpin just castled with his rook and lost a pawn
A regular on the block, and played look-out
For playing predator with a glock, he should have took out


No neighborhood is rough enough
There is no clip that's full enough
I can't fold, I need gold, I re-up and reload
Product must be sold to you.. yo

Fiends ain't comin fast enough
There is no cut that's pure enough
I can't fold, I need gold, I re-up and reload
Product must be sold to you


It's mandatory that
I supply all my troops with mega firearms
Big apes, and spread em out like crops on a farm
To get cream, sometimes they repaint the scene
Like the last episode on gates and other niggaz
Plant bombs til the smoke from the blast becomes thick
And flows through all they knew, he's gun sick
His glock clicks, like high-heeled shoes on parquay floors
Mad sick, stand on hills and invade wars
Filthy foul, shoveling dirt, he's out to hurt
For instance, chop off hands, attack worth
His idols would lock down airports and extort
Some import, catchin ten percent of what the fiends snort
Up in the ski resorts, up in hills
They move keys and had skis making drops on snowmobiles
The plan was to expand, catch seven figures, release triggers
And live large and bigger than my nigga
Who promised his moms a mansion with mad rooms
She died, and he still put a hundred grand in her tomb
Open wounds, he hid behind closed doors
And still organized his crime and drug wars


Fiends ain't comin fast enough
There is no cut that's full enough
I can't fold, I need gold, I re-up and reload
Product must be sold to you

No neighborhood is rough enough
There is no clips that's full enough
I can't fold, I need gold, I re-up and reload
Product must be sold to you

The peers that come is tight enough
There is no niggaz that's fuckin up
I can't fold, I need gold, I re-up and reload
Product must be sold, to you Ohh mad one
We see your trap
You can never escape, your fate
Submit with honor to a duel, with my son

I agree

I see you using an old style, I wondered where you had learned it from
You know very well, it's yours too
(yo god, it's a duel, it's a duel) heh, by the gods, will you show me?
(buck buck buck buck buck buck) and where do you come for?
(duel of the iron mic) you come here, since you're so interested
(duel of the iron mic) fight me
(in the moonlight niggaz I will strike)
(what, what? bring it!)


Yo
Picture bloodbaths and elevator shafts
Like these murderous rhymes tight from genuine craft
Check the print, it's where veterans spark the letterings
Slow moving mc's is waitin for the editin
The liquid soluble that made up the chemistry
A gaseous element, that burned down your ministry
Herbal vapors, and biblical papers
Smokin exodus, every square yard is plush
Fuck the screw-faced photo sessions facial expression
Leaves impressions, try to keep a shark nigga guessin
Give crazy shouts son here's the outcome
Cut across the semi-gloss rhymes you floss
Shit is outdated, just like neckloads of sterlings
Suede-fronts, bell-bottoms, and tri-colored shearlings
I ain't particular, I bang like vehicular homicides
On july 4th in bed-stuy
Where money don't grown on trees and there's thievin mc's
Who cut-throat to rake leaves
They can't breathe, blood splash, rushin fast
Like runnin rivers, I be that whiskey in your liver


Duel of the iron mic!
It's the fifty-two fatal strikes!


This is not a eighty-five affair, made clear
When the gods get on to perform storms blew up
Wu's up, causin the crowd to self-destruct
Killer bees are stingin somethin while I reveal
Science, that's heavily guarded by the culprit
Bombin your barracks, with aerodynamic
Swordplay, poison darts by the doorway
Minds that's laced with explosive doses
Damagin lyrical launcher
Lunge at the youthful offender then injure
Any contender, testin the murderous master
Could lead to disaster, dynamite thoughts
Explode through your barrier, rips the retina
Who can withstand the astonishing punishing
Stings to the sternum, shocked in the hip-hop livestock
Seekin for a serum, to cure em


Adults kill for drugs plus the young bucks bust
Duckin handcuffs, throats get cut when dough rush
Out of town foes look shook but still pose
We move lioke real pros through the streets we stroll
Bullet holes lace the windows in one-six oh
So control the avenues that's the dream that's sold
Bulding lobbies are graveyards for small-timers
Bitches caught in airports, keys in they vaginas
No peace, yo the police mad corrupt
You get bagged up, dependin if you're passin the cut
Plus shorty's not a shorty no more, he's livin heartless
Regardless of the charges, claims to be the hardest
Individual, critical thoughts, criminal minded
Blinded by illusion, findin it confusin


Duel of the iron mics (the master, he must be dreaming, heh)
It's that fifty-two fatal strikes (well, if he is dreaming...)
Duel of the iron mics (...then he must be asleep)
It's that fifty-two fatal strikes, nuh (and if he is asleep)
(then I will wake him up!)
(weahhhhaah-hah-hah!)

At the height of their fame and glory, they turned on one another
Each struggling in vain for ultimate supremacy
In the passion and depth of their struggle
They very art, that had raised them through such rapiant heights was lost
Their techniques, vanished
We are the G, O-D's
And we came to rock, the spot
Like Ironman Starks
They be the illest MC's, in the world today
Cappa Raekwon and the R-Z-A
So listen to them clear, and put the box right near your ear
Light your blunts and down your beers
Cause you could never fuck with Wu-Tang Killer Beez...



Say peace to cats who rock mack knowledge
Knowledgists, street astrologists
Light up the mic God, knowledge this
Fly joints that carried your points
Corolla Motorola holder
Play it God, he pack over the shoulder
Chrome tanks, player like Yanks, check the franchise
Front on my guys, my enterprise splash many lives
Rapel on fakes like reflectors
He had sugar in his ear in his last crack career
We can can him, manhandle him, if you wanna
run in his crib-o, get ditto, skate like a limo
And jet to the flyest estate, relate take a break
Break down an eighth and then wait drop it like Drake
Thugs they be booing and screwing, we canoeing
Claim they doin the same shit we doin, fuck your unit
It's the same style, RZA trainable, jump the turnstyle
On the alley tried to challenge God for the new vials
Especially that, aluminum bat in the act
Relax, lay back, sell a grenade a day, it pays black
The Mac-10 flex white cats like Windex
Index finger be sore, bustin these fly scripts
The Wally kid count crazily grands with our plans
Layin with my bitches and my mans in Lex Lands
We losin em, jet to the stash and now Jerusalem
Abusin em, rockin his jewels like we usin em
Low pro star, seven thick waves rock Polar
Roll with the older God, build with the Son and the Star



All these MC's start realizing
That Ghost got that shit, that'll keep you vibing
The Wu is here to bring, you Shaolin's finest
But if your shields are weak, you better step behind us



Mercury raps is roughed then God just shown like taps
Red and white Wally's that match, bend my baseball hat
Doin forever shit, like pissin out the window on turnpikes
Robbin niggaz for leathers, high swipin on dirt bikes
Voice be metal like Von Harper radio bubble
Murder sleep away camp, the fly lady champ
The arsonist, who burn with his pen regardless
Slaying all these earthlings and fake foreigners
In the Phillipines, pick herbal beans, bubbling strings
Body chemical CREAM, we burn kerosene
The conviction of my tape is rape, wicked like Nixon
Long-heads inscriptions with three sixes in
Kiss the pyramid experiment with high explosive
I slapbox with Jesus, lick shots at Joseph
Zoomin like binoculars, the rap blacksmith
Money's Rolex, with sparkles, Chef ragtop is spotless
I'm Iron Man no cheap cash metal I'm steel alloy
True identity hidden inside secret tabloids
Breathe oxygen both sides of my jaw carry oxes
The track hit like the bangers, in hundred watt boxes
Yo jostling these cats while Little J be deli-ing
Sip Irish Moss out of Widelians





Give me the the fifty thou, small bills
My gold plate, my slang kills
My Benz spills, whattup Lils
Murder one Dunn
Killer bee stung, guess who back home Son
My technique of slang camp won, third platoon soon
Cristal bottles, cages of boom, probably wardrobe
The mad-hatter big dick style, beware goons
smuggle balloons, lord of dooms, in fat pussy wombs
Let the Gods build, pull up the grill
Check out the mad skills
Top secret technique, too hard for you to peep it
and keep it, jiggy style of rap and watchin knuckle slang
sweep it out of order ape recorder can't record my slaughter
spoil the rotten Don is too good to be forgotten
High top notch, borderline rhymes is handcocked
Ninety-six, my ill sound clash is still hot
Get yourself shot
A game of chess is like a swordfight:
You must think first before you move
Toad style is immensely strong
And immune to nearly any weapon
When it's properly used it's almost invincible


Raw I'ma give it to ya with no trivia
Raw like cocaine straight from Bolivia
My Hip-Hop will rock and shock the nation
Like the Emancipation Proclamation
Weak MC's approach with slang that's dead
You might as well run into the wall and bang your head
I'm pushin' force, my force you're doubtin'
I'm makin' devils cower to the Caucasus Mountains


Well, I'm a sire, I set the microphone on fire
Rap styles vary and carry like Mariah
I come from the Shaolin slum and the isle I'm from
Is comin' through with nuff niggas and nuff guns
So if you wanna come sweatin', stressin', contestin'
You'll catch a sharp sword to the midsection
Don't talk the talk if you can't walk the walk
Phony niggas are outlined in chalk
I'm mad vexed, it's what the projects made me
Rebel to the grain, there's no way to barricade me
Steamrollin' niggas like an 18 wheeler
With a drunk driver drivin', there's no survivin'


Rough like Timberland wear, yeah!
Me and the Clan in 'Yota Landcruisers out there
Peace to all the crooks, all the niggas with bad looks
Bald heads, braids, blow this hook
We pack chrome TEC's, nickel-plated MAC's
Black AC's, drug-dealin' styles in phat stacks
I only been a good nigga for a minute though
'Cause I got to get my props and win it, yo
I got beef with commercial-ass niggas with gold teeth
Lampin' in a Lexus, eatin' beef
Straight up and down, don't even bother
I got 40 niggas up in here now who kill niggas' fathers


My peoples, are you with me? Where you at?
In the front, in the back, Killa Beez on attack
My peoples, are you with me? Where you at?
Smokin' meth, hittin' cats on the block with the gats


Here I go, deep type flow
Jacques Cousteau could never get this low
I'm cherry bombin' shits... BOOM!
Just warmin' up a little bit (vroom vroom)
Rappinin' is what's happenin'
Keep the pockets stacked and then hands clap and then
At the party when I move my body
Gotta get up and be somebody!
Grab the microphone, put strength to the bone
DUH DUH DUH... enter the Wu-Tang zone
Sure enough when I rock that stuff, huff puff
I'm gonna catch your bluff tuff, rough
Kickin' rhymes like Jim Kelly
Or Alex Haley, I'm a nuh... Beetle Bailey rhymes
Comin' raw style, hardcore
Niggas be comin' to the Hip-Hop store
Comin' to buy grocery from me
Pretending to be a Hip-Hop MC
The law, in order to Enter the Wu-Tang
You must bring the Ol' Dirty Bastard type slang
Represent the GZA, Abbot, RZA
Shaquan, Inspectah Deck
Dirty Ho gettin' low with his flow
Introducin' the Ghostface Killah
No one could get iller


My peoples, are you with me? Where you at?
In the front, in the back, Killa Beez on attack
My peoples, are you with me? Where you at?
Smokin' meth, hittin' cats on the block with the gats


Speakin' of the Devil, psych! No, it's the God, get the shit right
Mega trife, and yo, I killed you in a past life
On the mic while you was kickin' that fast shit
You reneged, tried again and got blasted
Half-mastered-ass style, mad ruff task
When I struck I had on Timbs and a black mask
Remember that shit? I know you don't remember jack
That night, yo I was hittin' like a spiked bat
Until you thought I was bugged out and crazy
Strapped for nonsense, after me became lazy
Yo, nobody budge while I shot slugs
Never shot thugs, I'm runnin' with thugs that flood mugs
So, grab your eight plus one, start flippin' and trippin'
Niggas is jettin', I'm lickin' off, son


Wu! Tang! Wu! Tang!
Wu! Tang! Wu! Ta-a-ang!


Homicide's illegal and death is the penalty
What justifies the homicide when he dies
In his own iniquity?
It's the master of the Mantis Rapture comin' at ya
We have an APB on an MC Killer
Looks like the work of a master
Evidence indicates that his stature
Merciless like a terrorist hard to capture
The flow changes like a chameleon
Plays like a friend and stabs you like a dagger
This technique attacks the immune system
Disguised like a lie, paralysin' the victim
You scream as it enters your bloodstream
Erupts your brain from the pain these thoughts contain
Movin' on a nigga with the speed of a centipede
And injure any motherfuckin' contender


My peoples, are you with me? Where you at?
In the front, in the back, Killa Beez on attack
My peoples, are you with me? Where you at?
Smokin' meth, hittin' cats on the block with the gats


And immune to nearly any weapon
When it's properly used it's almost invincible
Toad style is immensely strong
And immune to nearly any weapon
When it's properly used it's almost invincible
When it's properly used 
What that nigga want, God?
Word up, look out for the cops though (Wu-Tang five finger shit, fam)
{Cash rules-}
Word up, two for fives over here, baby
Word up, two for fives, niggas got garbage down the way
Word up, know what I'm sayin'?
{Cash rules everything around me, C.R.E.A.M. get-}
Yeah, check this old fly shit out, word up
{Cash rules everything around me} Take you on a natural joint
{C.R.E.A.M. get the money}
{Dollar dollar bill, y'all} Here we, here we go, check this shit, yo


I grew up on the crime side, the New York Times side
Stayin' alive was no jive
Had secondhands, Mom's bounced on old man
So then we moved to Shaolin land
A young youth, yo, rockin' the gold tooth, 'Lo goose
Only way I begin the G off was drug loot
And let's start it like this, son
Rollin' with this one and that one, pullin' out gats for fun
But it was just a dream for the teen
Who was a fiend, started smokin' woolies at 16
And runnin' up in gates and doin' hits for high stakes
Makin' my way on fire escapes
No question, I would speed for cracks and weed
The combination made my eyes bleed
No question, I would flow off and try to get the dough all
Stickin' up white boys in ball courts
My life got no better, same damn 'Lo sweater
Times is rough and tough like leather
Figured out I went the wrong route
So I got with a sick-ass clique and went all out
Catchin' keys from 'cross seas
Rollin' in MPV's, every week we made forty G's
Yo, nigga, respect mine, or here go the TEC-9
Ch-chick-pow! Move from the gate now


Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all
Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all


It's been twenty-two long, hard years, I'm still strugglin'
Survival got me buggin', but I'm alive on arrival
I peep at the shape of the streets
And stay awake to the ways of the world 'cause shit is deep
A man with a dream with plans to make cream
Which failed; I went to jail at the age of fifteen
A young buck sellin' drugs and such, who never had much
Tryin' to get a clutch at what I could not—
The court played me short, now I face incarceration
Pacin', goin' upstate's my destination
Handcuffed in the back of a bus, forty of us
Life as a shorty shouldn't be so rough
But as the world turned, I learned life is hell
Livin' in the world no different from a cell
Every day I escape from Jakes givin' chase
Sellin' base, smokin' bones in the staircase
Though I don't know why I chose to smoke sess
I guess that's the time when I'm not depressed
But I'm still depressed, and I ask: what's it worth?
Ready to give up so I seek the old Earth
Who explained workin' hard may help you maintain
To learn to overcome the heartaches and pain
We got stick-up kids, corrupt cops, and crack rocks
And stray shots, all on the block that stays hot
Leave it up to me while I be livin' proof
To kick the truth to the young black youth
But shorty's runnin' wild, smokin' sess, drinkin' beer
And ain't tryna hear what I'm kickin' in his ear
Neglected for now, but yo, it gots to be accepted
That what? That life is hectic


Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all
Cash rules everything around me (My niggas gots to do what they gotta do)
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all (To get through, know what I'm sayin'?)
Cash rules everything around me (Because you can't just get by no more)
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all (Word up, you gotta get over, straight up and down)
Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all


Yeah, yeah
Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all
Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all
Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all
Cash rules everything around me
C.R.E.A.M., get the money
Dollar dollar bill, y'all-all-all, yeah
I had a bad dream
Don't be afraid, bad dreams are only dreams
What a time you chose to be born in...


Babies crying brothers dying and brothers getting knocked
Shit is deep on the block and you got me locked down
in this cold, cold world...


It was the night before New Year's, and all through the fucking projects
Not a handgun was silent, not even a Tec
Outside as I'm stuck, by enemies who put fear
and blasted on the spot before the pigs were there
You know hoods robbers snipers new in sight, fuck blue and white
They escape before them flash the fucking lights
Gunshots, shatter first floor window panes
Shells hit the ground and blood stained the dice game
Whether broke callisthenic, any style you set it
Beat niggaz toothless, physically cut up like gooses
But with iron on the sides thugs took no excuses
Therefore, your fifty-two handblocks was useless
Links was snatched off necks, scars on throats
Jackets took, after bullet rips through coats
Against those who felt the cold from the steel made em fold
and squeal, once the metal hit the temple of his grill
Destruction worker, who was caught for his bomber
No time to swing the hammer that was hanging from his Farmer's
And it's bugged how some niggaz catch slugs
and pockets dug from everything except check stubs
and it does, sound ill like wars in Brownsville
Or fatal robberies in Red Hook where Feds look
For fugitives to shoot cops, niggaz laying on roof tops
for his cream he stashed in a shoebox
But he was hot, and the strip was filled with young killers
you don't suspect, so cops creep like caterpillars
And born thieves stay hooded with extra bullets
those who try to flee they hit the vertebrae, increase the murder rate
Similar to hit men who pull out Tecs and then
drop those who crack like tacos from Mexican
Rapid, like recipients cashing cheques again
Back to the motherfuckign spot on Lexington


Babies crying brothers dying and brothers getting knocked
Shit is deep on the block and you got me locked down
in this cold, cold world...

We be running from the cops, busting off shots
Shit is deep on the block and you got me locked down
in this cold, cold world...


Yo - no time to freeze, undercovers ease up in Grand Prixs
and seize packages and pocket the currency
Clicks control strips full clips are sprayed
Yellow tape barricades sidewalks where bodies lay
Madness strikes at twelve o'clock midnight
The stick up kids on the ground broke the staircase light
And I stays harassed, scrambling for petty cash
Jakes on my ass young bucks is learning fast
357's and 44's
Bought inside corner stores, provide fire sparks to wars
Hospital floors surrounded by the law
Homicide questioning while the Jakes guard the door
My hood stay tense, loyalty puts strength in my team
Cause niggaz main concern is cream
Some niggaz in the jet black Gallant
Shot up the Chinese restaurant, for this kid named Lamont
I thought he was dead but instead he missed a kid
and hit a twelve year old girl in the head and then fled
Tactical narcotic, task force, back off fast
Cause the crime boss is passing off cash
Extortions, for portions of streets, causes beef
Having followers of Indians trying to play Chief
You witness the saga, casualties and drama
Life is a script, I'm not an actor but the author
of a modern day opera, where the main character
is presidential paper, the dominant factor 
Up from the 36 Chambers
Heheh, it's the Ghost Face Killah
Heheheh, Wu-Tang!
Wu-Tang Killa Beez, we on a swarm
Wu-Tang Killa Beez, we on a swarm
Wu-Tang Killa Beez, we on a swarm
Wu-Tang Killa Beez, we on a swarm
The RZA, the GZA, Ol' Dirty Bastard, Inspectah Deck, U-God
Ghostface Killah, the Method Man, Raekwon the Chef, the Masta Killa, Raw Desire, LeVon, Power Cipher
12 O'Clock, 60 Second Assassin
The 4th Disciple, the Brown Hornet
K.D. the Down Low Recka
Shyheim a.k.a. The Rugged Child
Du-Du-Lilz, Mr. Hezekiah
Better known as the Yin and the Yang, the True Master
Isham, DJ Skane, the True Robocop comin' through
Scientific Shabazz, my motherfuckin' man Wise the Civilized
The Shaolin Soldiers, Daddy-O and Popa Ron
Comin' down from the motherfuckin' South end of things
Killa Beez all over your fuckin' planet
Thirty-six chambers of death
Three-hundred and sixty degrees of perfected styles
Choppin' off your motherfuckin' dome
-piece, and every fuckin' borough
Brooklyn, Manhattan, and Queens, Staten Island
The motherfuckin' Bronx, Killa Beez


The sword? C'mon, give him the sword!


Clan in da front, let your feet stomp
Niggas on the left, brag shit to death (Wu, wu, wu, wu)
Hoods on the right, wild for the night (Wu, wu, wu, wu)
Punks in the back, c'mon and attract to what? (Wu, wu, wu, wu)

The Wu is comin' through, the outcome is critical
Fuckin' with my style is sort of like a miracle
On 34th Street, in the Square of Herald
I gamed Ella, the bitch caught a Fitz like Gerald-
-ine Ferraro, who's full of sorrow
'Cause the ho didn't win, but the sun will still come out tomorrow
And shine shine shine like gold mine
Here comes the drunk monk, with a quart of Ballantine
Pass the bone, kid, pass the bone!
Let's get on this mission like Indiana Jones
The GZA, one who just represent the Wu-Tang clique
With the game and soul of an old school flick
Like the Mack and Dolemite, who both did bids
Claudine went to Cooley High and had mad kids
So stop, the life you save may be your motherfuckin' own
I'll hang your ass with this microphone
Make way for the merge of traffic
Wu-Tang's comin' through with full metal jackets
God squad that's mad hard to serve
Come frontin' hard, then Bernhard Goetz what he deserves

Clan in da front, let your feet stomp
Niggas on the left, brag shit to death (Wu, wu, wu, wu)
Hoods on the right, wild for the night (Wu, wu, wu, wu)
Punks in the back, c'mon and attract to what (Wu, wu, wu, wu)

No response while I bomb that ass
You ain't shit, your wack-ass town had you gassed
Egos is somethin' the Wu-Tang crush
Souped-up niggas on a stage get rushed
I don't give a goddamn on the shows you did
How many rhymes you got or who knows you, kid
'Cause I don't know you, therefore show me what you know
I come sharp as a blade and I cut you slow
You become so Pat as my style increases
What's that in your pants? Ahh, human feces!
Throw your shitty drawers in the hamper
Next time, come strapped with a fuckin' Pamper
How you sound, B? You're better off a quitter
I'm on the mound, G, and it's a no-hitter
And my DJ, the catcher, he's my man
In a way he's the one who devised the plan
He throws the signs, I hook up the beats with clout
I throw the rhymes to the mic and I strike 'em out
So it really doesn't matter on how you intrigue
You can't fuck with those in the major leagues

Clan in da front, let your feet stomp
Niggas on the left, brag shit to death
Hoods on the right, wild for the night
Punks in the back, c'mon and attract to what
Clan in da front, let your feet stomp
Niggas on the left, brag shit to death
Hoods on the right, wild for the night
Punks in the back, c'mon and attract to what

Hoods on the right
Punks in the back... to what
Niggas on the left
Hoods on the right
Punks in the back, c'mon... to what
Let your feet stomp
Brag shit to death
Wild for the night
(Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu)
(Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu)
(Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu, Wu)
Niggas on the left, brag shit to death
Hoods on the right, wild for the night
Punks in the back, c'mon and attract
Clan in da front, let your feet stomp 
Fuck yo, we gotta get this fucking loot baby
We gotta get this loot
Yo back, remember back in the days
When shit, everything was all smooth and calm and shit was like

 Smoke that bone, nigga


Yo man, yo I'm doing it God, I'm doing it man
I'm saying, back in like in '70, fucking '79

 Everybody was on your line man


Nah, '87, that was my favorite shit God
Polo shit, everything, everything was lovely
Yo get the fuck out the rain nigga
Oh shit, who the fuck is that? Fuck
Ayo Ghost, ayo Rae, what's up with y'all niggas?
Man, what the fuck you nigga, ah


Hey, you know, everybody's talking about the "good old days," right? Everybody! The good old days
Well, let's talk about the good old days!


Know what I'm sayin'?
Take you on this lyrical high real quick
1993 exoticness, know what I'm sayin'?
Let's get technical; where's your bone at?
Get up on that shit, a'ight? Yo!

Started off on the island, aka Shaolin
Niggas wilin', gun shots thrown, the phone diallin'
Back in the days, I'm 8 now
Makin' a tape now, Rae gotta get a plate now
Ignorant and mad young, wanted to be the one
'Til I got (Blaow! Blaow! Blaow!) felt one
Yeah, my pops was a fiend since 16
Shootin' that "that's that shit!" in his blood stream
That's the life of a grimy, real-life crimey
And niggas know that habit's behind me
Day one, yo, growin' all up in the ghetto
Now I'm a weed fiend jettin' to Palmetto
In Medina, yo, no doubt, the god got crazy clout
Pushin' the big joint from down South
So if you're filthy stacked up, better watch your back and duck
'Cause these fiends, they got it cracked up
Now my man from up North, now he got the loft
It's solid as a rock and crazy salt
No jokes, I'm not playin', get his folks
Desert Eagle his dick and put him in a yoke
And to know for sure, I got reck and rip shop
I pointed a gat at his mother's knot
(Yo, Rae, don't do that shit, man! Don't do that shit!)
Fuck that!


Dedicated to the winners and the losers
(Dedicated to all Jeeps and Land Cruisers)
Can it be that it was all so simple then?
Dedicated to the 5's, 850i's
(Dedicated to niggas who do drive-by's)
Can it be that it was all so simple then?
Dedicated to the Lexus and the Ac's
(Dedicated to MPV's: phat!)


Kickin' the fly clichés, doin' duets with Rae and A
Happens to make my day
Though I'm tired of bustin' off shots, havin' to rock knots
Runnin' up in spots and makin' shit hot
I'd rather flip shows instead of those
Hangin' on my livin' room wall, my first joint and it went gold!
I want to lamp, I want to be in the shade
Plus the spotlight, gettin' my dick rode all night
I want to have me a phat yacht
And enough land to go and plant my own sess crops
But for now it's just a big dream
'Cause I find myself in a place where I'm last seen
My thoughts must be relaxed, be able to maintain
'Cause times is changed and life is strange
The glorious days is gone and everybody's doin' bad
Yo, mad lives is up for grabs
Brothers passin' away, I gotta make wakes
Receivin' all types of calls from Upstate
Yo, I can't cope with the pressure, settlin' for lesser
The God left lessons on my dresser
So I can bloom and blossom, find a new way
To continue to make more hits with Rae and A
Sunshine plays a major part in the daytime
(Peace to mankind, Ghostface carry a black 9, nigga)
Word up, it's all like that... yeah


It's like this, I'ma start from the top
Inspectah Deck, he's like
He's like that dude that'll sit back and watch you
Play yourself and all that, right?
And see you sit there and know you lyin'
And he'll take you to court after that
'Cause he the Inspectah, that's why he the and
And also he the Rebel I.N.S
You know what I'm sayin'?
And Shallah Raekwon, he the Chef
He cookin' up some marvelous shit to get your mouth waterin'
On some "oh shit"
Then, then it's, then it's the Method Man
It's like mad different methods to the way I do my shit


You gotta smoke a bean in here, anyhow


And I'm tellin' you, mine
Basically Method Man is like
Roll that shit, light that shit, smoke it
And then Baby U, he a psychopathic
He a psychopathic thinker
And and, then we got, then we got the Ol' Dirty Bastard
'Cause there ain't no father to his style
That's why he the Ol' Dirty Bastard
Ghostface Killah, you know what I'm sayin'?
He on some "now you see me, now you don't"
Know what I'm sayin'? And and, the RZA
He the sharpest motherfucka in the whole Clan
He always on point, razor sharp
With the beats, with the rhymes, whatever, any DJ


And the GZA, the G is just the Genius
He, he's the backbone of the whole shit


It's self-explanatory, Genius, word


He the head, let's put it that way
We form like Voltron, and GZA happen to be the head
You know what I'm sayin'?


Yeah, yeah, that's cool
So what's like, I mean what's like
Your ultimate goal against in this in this industry?


Domination, baby, fuck that


Can I say this one? Can I say this one?
Right now, right now, we still, we still
Feel like we ain't get what we want yet
When we get, when we get, when we get a little props
And really really get the way we gotta go
That's when you know it's on
You know what I'm sayin'?
'Cause right about now, I ain't braggin' or nothin'
But yo, the Wu, the Wu got somethin'
That I know that everybody wanna hear
'Cause I know I've been waitin' to hear
You know what I'm sayin'?
But straight up and down, 'til we get the goal
We gon' keep goin'


Yeah, 'cause we tryin' to do all this
We tryin' to make a business outta this, man
We ain't tryin' to know what I'm sayin'?
Affiliate ourselves with them fake-ass A&Rs and all that
We tryin' to make our own shit
So that when our children, word
So that when our children, all our seeds and whatever
They got somethin' for theyselves right there


We ain't tryin' to hop in and hop out right quick
Know what I'm sayin'?
We out for the Gusto, and we gon' keep it raw
You know what I'm sayin'? (Word)"Bring Da Ruckus"


"Shaolin shadowboxing and the Wu-Tang sword style."
"If what you say is true, the Shaolin and the Wu-Tang could be dangerous. Do you think your Wu-Tang sword can defeat me?"
"En garde, I'll let you try my Wu-Tang style."


Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da mother, bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!


Ghostface catch the blast of a hype verse
My Glock burst, leave in a hearse, I did worse
I come rough, tough like an elephant tusk
Your head rush, fly like Egyptian musk
Aww shit, Wu-Tang Clan spark the wicks, an'
However I master the trick just like Nixon
Causin' terror, quick damage your whole era
Hard rocks is locked the fuck up, or found shot
P.L.O. style, hazardous, 'cause I wreck this dangerous
I blow sparks like Waco, Texas


I watch my back like I'm locked down
Hardcore-hittin' sound
Watch me act bugged and tear down
Illiterate-type asshole, songs goin' gold
No doubt, and you watch a corny nigga fold
Yeah, they fake and all that, carryin' gats
But yo, my Clan rollin' like forty macks
Now you act convinced, I guess it makes sense
Wu-Tang, yo, soooo represent!
I wait for one to act up, now I got him backed up
Gun to his neck now, react what?
And that's one in the chamber, Wu-Tang banger
36 styles of danger


Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da mother, bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da mother, bring da, bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da mother, bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
So bring it on!


I rip it, hardcore like porno-flick bitches
I roll with groups of ghetto bastards with biscuits
Check it, my method on the microphone's bangin'
Wu-Tang slang'll leave your headpiece hangin'
Bust this, I'm kickin' like Seagal: Out for Justice
The roughness, yes, the rudeness, ruckus
Redrum, I verbally assault with the tongue
Murder One, my style shocks your knot like a stun gun
I'm hectic, I wreck it with the quickness
Set it on the microphone, and competition get blown
By this nasty-ass nigga with my nigga, the RZA
Charged like a bull and got pulled like a trigga
So bad, stabbin' up the pad with the vocab, crab
I scream on your ass like your dad, bring it on


Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da mother, bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!


Yo, I'm more rugged than slave man boots
New recruits, I'm fuckin' up MC troops
I break loose, and trample shit, while I stomp
A mudhole in that ass 'cause I'm straight out the swamp
Creepin' up on site, now it's Fright Night
My Wu-Tang slang is mad fuckin' dangerous
And more deadly than the stroke of an axe
Choppin' through your back swish
Givin' bystanders heart attacks
Niggas try to flip, tell me, who is him?
I blow up his fuckin' prism, make it a vicious act of terrorism
You wanna bring it, so fuck it, come on and bring the ruckus!
And I provoke niggas to kick buckets
I'm wettin' cream, I ain't wettin' fame
Who sellin' 'caine? I'm givin' out a deadly game
It's not the Russian, it's the Wu-Tang crushin' roulette
Slip up and get fucked like Suzette
Bring da fuckin' ruckus!


Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!
Bring da motherfuckin' ruckus!

"En garde, I'll let you try my Wu-Tang style."
So, bring it on!
So, bring it on!
So, bring it on!
So, bring it on!
So, bring it on!
So, bring it on!
So, bring it on, nigga! Life is a test many quest the universe
And through my research, I felt the joy and the hurt
The first shall be last, and the last shall be first
The basic instructions before leaving Earth

Knowledge this wisdom, this goes back when I was twelve
I loved doing right, but I was trapped in hell
Had mad ideas, sad eyes and tears
Years of fears, but, yo, my foes couldn't bear
I searched for the truth since my youth
And went to church since birth, but it wasn't worth the loot
That I was payin', plus the prayin'
I didn't like staying cuz of busybodies and dizzy hotties
That the preacher had souped up with lies
Had me cooped up lookin' at loot, butt, and thighs
Durin' the service, he swallowed up the poor
And after they heard this, they wallowed on the floor
But I ignored and explored my history that was untold
And watched mysteries unfold
And dropped a jewel like Solomon but never followed men
Cause if you do your brain is more hollow than
Space oblivion, or the abyss
With no trace of trivia, left with the hiss
Does it pay to be deaf, dumb, and blind?
From a slave we was kept from the mind
And from the caves he crept from behind
And what he gave was the sect of the swine
When the Bible, it condemned the pig
I don't mean to pull your hems or flip your wigs
But we used to wear a turban, but now we're in the urban
No more wearing beanies and dress like a genie
No hocus-pocus cause I focus on the facts
And put it on the tracks and brought it through the wax
I speak on Jacob, it might take up some time
And too much knowledge, it might break up the ryhme
I did it anyway just to wake up the mind
Of those who kiss stones or prays on the carpet
Those who sit home or sell books by the market
Need to chill and get their mind revived
For years religion did nothing but divide
The basic instructions before leaving Earth


I strolled through the books of Job to unfold
And open Bibles instead of hoping on revivals
Calling on His name and screaming hallelujah
When he hardly knew ya—that's how the devil's fooled ya
See, look into my eyes, brethren—that's the lies of a Reverend
Why should you die to go to heaven?
The Earth is already in space, the Bible I embrace
A difficult task I had to take
I studied till my eyes was swollen, and only arose when
I found out that we were the chosen
I deal with the truth, and build with the youth
And teach my son as he kneels on the stoop
Son, life is a pool of sin, corrupted with foolish men
And women with wicked minds who build picket signs
To legalize abortion, the evil eye distortion
I quiz Son with my wisdom
Before I converted, I was perverted, and knowledge was asserted
The study of wisdom, I perferred it
The understanding, it gave me mental freedom
I even learned Caucasians were really the Tribe of Edam
The white image, of Christ is really Cesare Borgia
And, uhh, the second son of Pope Alexander VI of Rome
And once the picture was shown
That's how the devils tricked my dome
I prophesied to save a man, but no one gave a damn
For my nation—the seed of Abraham
Blessed with the tongue of Hebrew
Now we're strung on needles, and some are plungin' evils
So study and be wise in these days of darkness
Peace to my nephew Marcus

The basic instructions before leaving EarthNiggas on the left, brag shit to death
Now hoods on the right, wild for the night
Punks in the back, c'mon and attract to what
Clan in da front, let your feet stomp
Niggas on the left, brag shit to death
Hoods on the right, wild for the night
Punks in the back, c'mon and attract to what
This goes back to nineteen
Ahem, check it, yo
GOOD MORNING VIETNAM!!

Yeah, good morning to all you motherfuckin notty-headed niggas
Word to the camouflage large niggas
Bitch niggas fuckin my body
Bring that fuckin meth in here
Yo yo yo yo
Now we gonna drink some good Nightrain


Champion gear that I rock, you get your boots knocked
Then attack you like a pit that lock shit DOWN
As I come and freaks the sound, hardcore
But giving you more and more, like ding!
Nah shorty, get you open like six packs
Killer Bees attack, flippin what, murder one, phat tracks
A'ight? I kick it like a Night Flite!
Word life, I get that ass raw, I'm fulla spite!
Check the method from Bedrock, cause I rock ya head to bed
Just like rockin what? Twin Glocks!
Shake the ground while my beats just break you down
Raw sound, we going to war right now
So, yo, bombin
We Usually Take All Niggas Garments
Save ya breath before I vomit


I be that insane nigga from the psycho ward
I'm on the trigger, plus I got the Wu-Tang sword
So how you figure that you can even fuck with mine?
Hey, yo, RZA! Hit me with that shit one time!
And pull a foul, niggas save the beef on the cow
I'm milkin this ho, this is MY show, tical
The FUCK you wanna do? More than Spike Lee's Do
I'm like a sniper, hyper off the ginseng root
PLO style, Buddha monks with the owls
So who's the fucking man? Meth-Tical
On the chessbox


Yo, yeah, yo
I leave the mic in body bags, my rap style has
The force to leave you lost, like the tribe of Shabazz
Murderous material, made by a madman
It's the mic wrecker, Inspector, bad man
From the bad lands of the killer, rap fanatic
Representing with the skill that's iller
Dare to compare, get pierced just like an ear
The zoo-we-do-wop-bop strictly hardware
Armed and geared cause I just broke out the prison
Charged by the system - for murdering the rhythm!
Now, lo and behold, another deadly episode
Bound to catch another fuckin charge when I explode


Slammin a hype-ass verse til ya head burst
I ramshack dead in the track, and that's that
Rap assassin, fastin, quick to blast and hardrock
I ran up in spots like Fort Knox!
I'm hot, top notch, Ghost thinks with logic
Flashback's how I attacked your whole project
I'm raw, I'm rugged and raw! I repeat, if I die
My seed'll be ill like me
Approachin me, you out of respect, chops ya neck
I get vexed, like crashing up a phat-ass Lex'
So clear the way, make way, yo! Open the cage
Peace, I'm out, jettin like a runaway slave


Ya gettin stripped from ya garments, boy, run ya jewels
While the meth got me open like falopian tubes
I bring death to a snake when he least expect
Ain't a damn thing changed, boy, Protect Ya Neck
Ruler Zig Zag, Zig-Allah jam is fatal
Quick to stick my Wu-Tang sword right through ya navel
Suspenseful, plus bein bought through my utensil
The pencil, I break strong winds up against your
Abbot, that run up through your county like the Maverick
Caps through the tablets, I gots to make the fabrics


Are uh-ah-uh Are you a warrior? Killer? Slicin shit like a samurai
The Ol' Dirty Bastard from the bar
Ol' Dirty clan of terrorists
Comin atcha ass like a sorceress, shootin' that PISS!
Niggas be gettin on my fuckin nerves
Rhymes they be kickin make me wanna kick they fuckin ass to the curb
I got funky fresh, like the old specialist
A carrier, messenger, bury ya
This experience is for the whole experience
Let it be applied, and THEN DROP THAT SCIENCE


My my my
My Clan is thick like plaster
Bust ya, slash ya
Slit a nigga back like a Dutch Master Killer
Style jumped off and Killa, Hill-er
I was the thriller in the Ali-Frazier Manilla

I came down with phat tracks that combine and interlock
Like getting smashed by a cinder block
Blaow! Now it's all over
Niggas seeing pink hearts, yellow moons
Orange stars and green clovers Yo, Meth, hold up, hold up
Yo, Meth, where my Killer tape at, God?
First of all, where my
Where the fuck is my tape at?


Yo, son, I ain't got that piece, son


How you ain't got my shit when I let you hold it, man?


Yo, niggas came over to have 40s and blunts, kid
The shit just came up missin', son


Come on, man, that don't got nothin' to do with my shit, man
Come on, man, go head with that shit, man


Come on, man, I'll buy you four more fuckin' Killer tapes, man


Ayo! Ayo!


Open the door, man! What the fuck, man?
Yo, what? What's up?


Yo, yo, God, word is bond, yo
Shameek just got bust in his head two times, God!


Word to mother!


Word life, God
You know Shameek from fuckin' 212, God?
The nigga just got bucked
Niggas in a black Land, God, word is bond
Came through, God, from out of nowhere, God
Word is bond I'm comin' to get my Culture Cipher, God
And they just... word is bond
Crazy shots just went the fuck off, God


Niggas let off crazy shots, kid


The nigga layin' there like a fuckin' newborn fuckin' baby, God


Word up!


Is he dead?


Is he fuckin' dead?
What the fuck you mean is he fuckin' dead, God?


What the fuck kind of question is that, B? Fuck you think?


Easy, easy


The nigga layin' there with his fuckin'
All types of fuckin' blood comin' out of his fuckin'


(Sarcastically) Is he is he is he dead?


Yo, God, what's up, God? It's the God, God, word is bond
Yo, what's up? I'm ready to fuckin' lay
I'm ready to get busy, God, what's up?


Yo, let's go do what we got


What's up, yo?


Yo let's go do what we gotta do, man, fuck it


Yo, we out or what, man?


It's the God, God, fuck that, man


You sayin' we out?


They probably took the tape


What the fuck?


Nigga still sweatin' the tape, man


What the fuck is you talkin' about? Get the fuck outta here!


Fuckin' corn!


Good Morning Vietnam!
Yeah, good morning
To all you motherfuckin' knotty-headed niggas
Word to the camouflage large niggas
Bitch, where the fuck is my bottle?
Bring that fuckin' meth in here!
Yo, yo, yo
Now we gonna drink some good Night train
Yo, yo, yo, yo!


Champion gear that I rock, you get your boots knocked
Then attack ya like a pit, then, lock shit down
As I come and freaks the sound, hardcore
But givin' you more and more like "Ding!"
Nah, shorty, get you open like six packs
Killa Beez attack, flippin' what? Murder one phat tracks, aight?
I kick it like a Nike Flight
Word life, I get that ass robbed on spite
Check the method from Bedrock, 'cause I rock your head to bed
Just like rockin' what? Twin Glocks!
Shake the ground while my beats just break you down
Raw sound, goin' to war right now
So, yo, bombin', We-Usually Take-All-Niggas-Garments
Save your breath before I vomit


I be that insane nigga from the psycho ward, I'm on the trigger
Plus I got the Wu-Tang sword, so how you figure
That you can even fuck with mine?
Hey, yo, RZA! Hit me with that shit one time!
And pull a foul, niggas, save the beef for the cow
I'm milkin' this ho, this is my show, Tical!
The fuck you wanna do on this mic piece, duke?
I'm like a sniper, hyper off the ginseng root
PLO Style, Buddha monks with the owls
Now, who's the fuckin' man? Meth-Tical


On the chessbox
"Wu-Tang style"


Yo, yeah, yo
I leave the mic in body bags
My rap style has the force to leave ya lost like the Tribe of Shabazz
Murderous material made by a madman
It's the mic wrecker, Inspectah, bad man
From the bad lands of the Killa
Rap fanatic, representin' with the skill that's iller
Dare to compare, get pierced just like your ear
The Shooby Doo-Wop pop, strictly hardware
Armed and geared 'cause I just broke out the prison
Charged by the system for murderin' the rhythm
Now, lo and behold another deadly episode
Bound to catch another fuckin' charge when I explode!


Slammin' a hype-ass verse 'til your head burst
I ramshack dead in the track, and that's that
Rap assassin, fast and quick to blast in hardrock
I ran up in spots like Fort Knox
I'm hot! Top notch, Ghost thinks with logic
Flashbacks how I attacked your whole project
I'm raw, I'm rugged and raw! I repeat
If I die, my seed'll be ill like me
Approachin' me, yo, out of respect, chops to neck
I get vexed, like crashin' up a phat-ass Lex
So, clear the way! Make way! Yo, open the cage!
Peace, I'm out, jettin' like a runaway slave


You gettin' stripped from your garments, boy, run your jewels
All the meth got me open like Fallopian tubes
I bring death to a snake when he least expect
Ain't a damn thing changed, boy, Protect Ya Neck!
Ruler Zig-Zag-Zig Allah, jam is fatal
Quick to stick my Wu-Tang sword right through your navel
Suspenseful force bein' brought through my utensil
The pencil, I bring strong winds up against you
Havoc, then run through your county like the Maverick
Caps through the tablets, I gots to make the fabrics


A-a-a-ah-ah, are you a warrior, killer? Slicin' shit like a samurai?
The Ol' Dirty Bastard from the bar!
Ol' Dirty clan of terrorists
Comin' at your ass like a sorceress, shootin' that piss
Niggas be gettin' on my fuckin' nerves
Rhymes they be kickin' make me wanna kick they fuckin' ass to the curb
Boy got funky fresh like the Old Specialist
A carrier, messenger, bury ya
This experience is for the whole experience
Let it be applied, Unique, drop that science!


My-My-My-My clan is thick like plaster, bust ya, slash ya
Slit a nigga back like a Dutch Master
Killer style jumped off in Killa Hilla
I was the thriller in the Ali-Frazier Manila
I came down with phat tracks that combine and interlock
Like gettin' smashed by a cinder block
Poaw! Now it's all over
Niggas seein' pink hearts, yellow moons
Orange stars and green clovers Choose the sword, and you will join me
Choose the ball, and you join your mother... in death
You don't understand my words, but you must choose

So... come boy, choose life or death


The only man a hoe wait for
is the sky-blue Bally kid, in '83, rocked Taylor's
My Memorex performed tape decks, my own phone sex
Watch out for Haiti bitches, I heard they throw hex
Yo, Wu whole platoon is filled with raccoons
Corner sitting wine niggaz sipping Apple Boone this ain't no white cartoon
'Cause I be ducking crazy spades
The kid hold white shit, like blacks rock ashy legs
Why is the sky blue? Why is water wet?
Why did Judas, rat to Romans while Jesus slept?
Stand up, you're out of luck like two dogs stuck
Iron Man be sipping rum, out of Stanley Cups, inflammable
Noriega, aiming knives which stay windy in Chicago
spine-tingle, mind boggles
Kangols in rainbow colours, promoters try to hold dough
Give me mine before Po, wrap you up in so-and-so
I ran the Dark Ages, Constantine the Great, Henry the Eighth
Built with Genghis Khan, the wreck suede Wally Don


I judge wisely, as if nothing ever surprise me
Lounging, between two pillars of ivory
I'm lively, my dome piece, is like building stones in Greece
my poems are deep from ancient thrones I speak
I'm overwhelmed, as my mind, roams the realm
My eye's the vision, memory is the film
Others act sub-tile, but they fragile above clouds
They act wild and couldn't budge a crowd
No matter how loud they get, though they growl and spit
Clutch they fists, and throw up signs like a Crip
And throw all types of fits
I leave them split, like ass cheeks and ragged pussy lips


Aiyyo, camouflage chameleon, ninjas scaling your building
No time to grab the gun they already got your wife and children
A hit was sent, from the President to raid your residence
Because you had secret evidence, and documents
on how they raped the continents, and it's the prominent
dominant Islamic, Asiatic black Hebrew
The year two thousand and two, the battle's filled with the Wu
Six million devils just died from the Bubonic Flu
Or the Ebola Virus, under the reign of King Cyrus
You can see the weakness of a man right through his iris
Un-loyal snakes get thrown in boiling lakes
of hot oil, it boils your skin, chickenheads getting slim
like Olive Oyl, only plant the seed deep inside fertile soil
Fortified with essential, vitamin and minerals
Use the sky for a blanket, stuffing clouds inside my pillow
Rolling with the lambs
Twelve tribes a hundred and forty four thousand chosen
Protons Electrons Always Cause Explosions


The banks of G, all cream downs a bet
Money feed good, opposites off the set
It ain't hard to see, my seeds need God-degree
I got mouths to feed, unnecessary beef is more cows to breed
I'm on some tax free shit by any means
Whether bound to hit scheme or some counterfeit cream
I learned much from such with cons who run scams
Veterans got the game spiced like ham
And from that, sons are born and guns are drawn
Clips are fully loaded, and then blood floods the lawn
Disciplinary action was a fraction of strength
that made me truncate the length one-tenth
With his thump, tweaters hits like air pumps
RZA shaved the track, niggaz caught razor bumps
Scarred trying to figure who invented
this unprecedented, opium-scented, dark-tinted
Now watch me blow him out his shoes without clues
'Cause I won't hesitate to detonate, I'm short fuse 
Cat I got to take him off of here, that's right
I got to take him off of here
Cause there's only one, and that's me
You understand? For all that fighting, you understand
that sucka think he good, that sucka think he can whoop me
and I know he can't whoop me, I...
Ay boy, the nigga whole style is chump
You understand?
Let me get mines first
Then after I get mines, you can do what you want to do...


Yeah, scandalous
Yeah miraculous, the arsonists

Yo, kicked down the door on the spot, 260
2L, I heard they had O's for sale
I heard the same shit, money drive a burgundy whip
Keep it low, faded licenses plates and great plate
Where's the cat from, think he's from New Jerusalem
Pretty Rick did his thing for him, but he was usin him
Power sun, jungle, physical, you know the God
He go with Tim, the one who called Lover of God
Y. E.quality S.elf, I know the natural law now
It's time to get the God U and blow like mines
But on the Iow I heard he got BORN original sin
Back in a drive-through Kentucky Fried shot up his Ac
We got to get him Dunn, aliens is snatchin our bread
U.F.O.'s movin in with bigger plans than Fed, yo
Knock on Daddy-O's door get the scope
He's not home, he took Ishmael to Park Slope
There go the the dreads yo, swindle two bags of that stuff
That get you crashed out had you laid out like bums
Peace Keana, what's up with your girlfriend Wanda
She drive a green Honda, with legs like Jane Fonda
I just left her, she took Rashean to Pathmark then
jetted to Canal to get her man some Clarks
She said be back in ninety minutes, Ghostface God forbid
She say, peace to W, who's watchin the kids?


Two hours later, scheamin like DeNiro in Casino
Son better have more coke than Al Pacino
Keana ain't tellin no lies, last year she did a sting and a half
and Tymeek bought her a aircraft
But anyway, yo, Daddy-O home, we need the shotties nidow
When we get back, throw you a bit out
Later that night, stay mesmerized yo
Go get the green 5, meet you on the corner of Marriot
You ready, you got the E&J and the machete?
We goin upstairs, I hope one nigga is empty
We walked in, both of us, looked like terrorists
Masks on, second floor, Dunn yo, I handle this
Kick in the crib, the whole shit looked graphical
Natural, fuckin a white bitch, actual
fiends chanting, "Do your thing Chef, handle it"
I shot him in the neck, it ricocheted and hit Carolyn
Ran to the back analyzin, much disguisin
Surprise we comin and their eyes were tranquilized
and buggin, throwin her twin cousins at his nugget, fuck it
Meet shottie waddy slug body hobby
Where the drugs, where the ounces you be bouncin
Fake cats announcin on the block, you loungin
Where the blow at, I ain't got shit, stop frontin
(Yo Chef, throw the joint in his mouth, money'll start stuntin
Bitch, show that bit, before I push your wig back
Chef stop wavin that, show him where the paper at)
Come here Valerie, you know the God he need a salary
Put down the pipe here's two tickets to a coke gallery
It's in the kitchen in the ceiling
(Baby girl kept squealin
Only found a white block of cheese from New Zealand
Ohhh shit! Yo, yo where that shit at yo?
Yo Chef, where that shit? What? What? Aiyyo...)
Ay yo, movin' on these niggas like they old soul, bro
You know how we go, we go shift 'em out like Paleco
Fine, proteges off top connectin' like a buildin'
Four dollar whylin' niggas buildin', savin' the children
Come on now, check out the view like a oceanfront
Slow motion in cunt, takin' what we want
You know a kid asiatic, holdin' power like a Craftmatic
You like your fish fried or battered, that day he ratted
Check out the movies from Guyana, just eatin' in Atlanta
Makin' some pirate moves out of Savannah
Yeah, rock them niggas like jewelry
Arabics movin' blow like aerobics
That's when his nose itch, yeah
That means it's all in effect
I'm hittin' you, I'm hittin' Buddha
Island Bermuda, send that twenty-shot Ruger
Continue to slam and mend you like a venue
Get all up in you, oh yeah your friend too, respect Wu
Yeah, keep the faggot niggas watery
Rhyme for rich niggas who supported me, shorty pussy extorted me
So it's a science now, RZA, cuttin' they pockets like scissors
Cindafella found him a Wally slipper
Splashin' ends in the glass Benz in Nevada
Flashin' gems, eight-and-a-half Tim state robber
All my life been on some foul shit besides kidnap a child shit
Get on some foul and proud shit
Cheatin' many Koreans bein' all that I can be an'
Put down on thirty keys an' get to fleein'
Light up a tree an'
Don't be breezin' like a blowdryer
Yo, you's a liar like Jeremiah gamin' on the flyer
Yo, but buryin' niggas is carryin'
Thug drug marryin', hittin' Marion off at the Clarion
All my Spanish niggas love us
We movin' like rush ya, bone crush ya
At the flick, stick to usher
Broke niggas, spot 'em like Cascade
in the street Masquerade
Faster Blade Restaurants on a stake-out, so order the food to take out
Chaos, outside a spark's steakhouse
Maintain the power, I feel the deal's gone sour
Nigga miss da Wedding, late a fucking half hour
And his man who bought land from Tony Starks
While he was contracting bricklaying jobs in city parks
he's a loan shark, interest rates a grand to a finger
In the garment district, got it sewn like Singer
Cause all that talk blasphemy this kid after me
for the heist, in a Burlington Coat Factory
Fuck it, he turned snake so my nigga Cash stole his copilot
who used to drive like sacks of blow on this remote
area, we label Dead Man's Island
Two hundred miles South from Thailand
Right off the docks, I got the luxurious custom made yachts
Burial plots, for my niggaz hit with fatal shots
There's no need for us to spray up the scene
I use less men, more powerful shit for my team
Like my man Muhammad from Afghanistan
Grew up in Iran, the nigga runs a neighbourhood news-stand
A wild Middle Eastern, bomb specialist
Initiated, at eleven to be a terrorist
He set bombs in bottles of champagne
And when niggaz popped the cork, niggaz lost half they brains
Like this ex-worker, tried to smuggle a half a key
in his left leg, even underwent surgery
They say his pirate limp gave him away
As the feds rushed him, coming through U.S. Customs
Now look whose on the witness stand singing, a well known soprano
A smash hit from Sammy Gravano
here's the plan minimum for the hit, two hundred grand
Half time at the game blasting niggaz out the stands
The sharp-shooters hit the prosecutor, judges are sent
Photographs of they wives taking baths
Along with briefcase filled with one point five, that's the bribe
Take it or commit suicide
First rule, anyone who schemes on the gold in Syria
I want they small intestines ripped from the interior
I got a price for those jewels, ship em freight cargo
Don't forget to launder the cream through Wells Fargo
Reconstruct those processing plants for the call of Costa Rica
Four hundred barrels of ether, two hundred pounds of reefer
and fifty immigrants with fake Visas